# MECP Vibrational Analysis

This script performs vibrational analysis at a **Minimum Energy Crossing Point (MECP)** between two electronic states (e.g., singlet and triplet) using outputs .xml. It computes projected vibrational frequencies, identifies the mode most aligned with the reaction coordinate, and writes the data in Molden format for visualization.

---

## 📦 Features

- Parses `.xml` files for gradient and Hessian extraction
- Removes translational, rotational, and crossing-seam directions
- Calculates vibrational frequencies from mass-weighted projected Hessians
- Identifies the mode corresponding to the reaction coordinate
- Outputs a `Molden` file and a vibrations file for compatibility with standard analysis tools

---

## 🧪 Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- Packages:
  - `numpy`
  - `scipy`
  - `argparse`
  - `xml.etree.ElementTree`
- software which outputs .xml output files.

---

## 🛠️ Usage

- python mectools.py sing.xml trip.xml POSCAR
- Arguments:
  - sing.xml: vasprun.xml file obtained from IBRION = 5 calculation with NUPDOWN = 0
  - trip.xml: vasprun.xml file obtained from IBRION = 5 calculation with NUPDOWN = 2
  - POSCAR: MECP geometry with frozen atoms selected in selective dynamics

---

## 📂 Output Files

- OUTCAR.fake: File with key OUTCAR format displaying electronic energy and 3N - 1 modes of vibration in the MECP. (Reaction coordinate is omitted)
- MECP.info.molden: Molden-format file containing geometry, vibrational modes, frequencies and MECP properties necesary for kinetic analysis.

---

## 📎 Assumptions

- Hessians are mass-weighted in .xml.
- Gradients and Hessians are in He/bohr and He/Bohr**2
- POSCAR coordinates are cartesians.

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer
This software is an independent tool developed for the purpose of analyzing output files generated by the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). It is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or distributed by the VASP Software Group or the University of Vienna.
